
From: Jay Hannah [mailto:jhannah@omnihotels.com]
Sent: Tuesday, October 08, 2002 11:07 AM
To: 'Daena Schweiger'; 'dschweiger@worldnet.att.net'
Cc: 'adesmet@omnihotels.com'
Subject: RE: Need Bio From You



Here's my super-long bio. Feel free to hack away:  -grin-

-----
Jay Hannah has lived in Omaha for nearly 5 years, and has worked for
Omni Hotels in the role of Application Development Manager since late
1999. He's been in the programming / computing industry since 1994 after
leaving Iowa State University, from which he did not acquire bachelor
degrees in Mechanical Engineering, Psychology, and Philosophy. 

Jay has been blessed with a staggering array of theatrical skill sets.
Among them are a natural talent for paint scraping, new paint
application (roller, brush, and electric sprayer), furniture hauling,
refuse removal, simplistic set construction, wall/floor removal, and an
uncanny knack for consistently owning and operating a pickup truck
during the construction and striking phases of Shelterbelt productions. 

At this point Jay would like to thank Don for giving him a whole page to
fill in the program. Perhaps a comprehensive listing of every play Jay
has ever worked on would take up some space.

Jay skipped out on theatre during his formal education years, opting
instead to pursue talents in football bench warming and drinking during
his high school and college years, respectively. Jay's first time on
stage was playing an especially oafish Charlie in "Charlie Aunt" for the
local community theatre in Yankton, South Dakota. After moving to Omaha
Jay was permanently sucked into the "Shelterbelt assistance program";
first by scraping paint then by volunteering for box office and security
duty for Shelterskelter 4. Jay acted in Stocking Stuffers 4, which
immediately killed the annual running of that show. Jay ran lights/sound
and various other duties for the Shelterbelt's Cyber, Spider,
Shelterskelter 5 and 6, Three Guys Naked from the Waist Down (misc.
duties only), Precious Few, From Shelterbelt With Love 1(?), The Marriage
of Bette and Boo, and most recently appeared as "Sir Sagramore" in 
Bellevue Little Theatre's "Camelot."

During his light operator duties tonight Jay will sit up in the booth
expertly pressing the "Go" button exactly 48 times on the Shelterbelt's
fully computerized and automated light board. His mind will wander
longingly back to the days when light operators held out a glimmer of
creative license by actually moving dimmers up and down to manually
control lighting changes. A pang or two of nostalgia will also
undoubtedly be felt for the "pie pan" era of Shelterbelt lighting. 

Jay would like to thank Don for inviting him down to the 'Belt again;
and Andria for letting him steal another 4 weekends off the social
calendar.

